Griffen vouchers in Spain now leave the
ledges on the cliffs where they spent
the night and launch themselves into the
air with the thermals rising powerfully
beneath outstretched wings they sail
effortlessly upwards
[Music]
all they have to do is to make sure that
they remain within the column of warm
air
so dozens of them spiral together in
tight circles adjusting their flight
with the tiniest movements of their
wings and tail
there can be no more economical site
than this
[Music]
the vultures ability to read the air
conditions about their landscape and
detect exactly where the thermals are
their most powerful scenes almost
uncanny but in recent years human beings
have also mastered it when you hit a
thermal in a glider you really feel it
your stomach drops beneath your feet
glider pilots spend a lot of time going
around in circles just like birds of
prey do because of thermals rising
column of air in order to stay in if you
have to turn
there's nothing to see those are parts
for what's on the ground you can't see
anything in the air to indicate this
well right right now this farmers
there's Lord kilo start over this
trouble but often there is if you look
over there you can see all those cumulus
clouds underneath most of those there
will be a thermal and that's one of the
indicators of lives that's one thing we
will look for that's what bird looks
first look also when they fire look feel
that there's a big rocky outcropping and
as our let's look at that now you can
see those altimeter
winding up
how high could we go with this we could
probably go to about 14 15 thousand feet
with no problem
under the verb sterilizer I've seen Bert
up at 16 18,000 feet they just thought
they're fine for fun while the water
flowing for fun because after you see a
mouse from 18,000 feet hardly and they
do all kinds of tricks and aerobatics
let me this we're really going up now
the pressure on the wings actually
pending there with me the other expired
slightly flexible so when we develop
more lifts it makes them spar actually
bent upward a little bit here is similar
to birds